All right.
So congratulations on reaching the end of another core section.
We learned a lot more about the composition API in this section.
So let's review everything that we've learned.
This section was focused on learning how to use the composition API to replace various options API features
that we've used throughout the course.
So we learned about how to replace data methods, computed properties, how to replace properties like
dollar signs, store and dollar router and dollar root, or properties that are given to us by other
libraries.
In other words, we also learned how to replace getters, how to replace mutations, all using the new
composition API.
So what is the focus in the composition API?
Well, its intent, of course, is to replace lots of functionality with helper functions, smaller
functions, which are also often called composable, right.
So we can kind of look at the helper functions that we get from other libraries as their own composable
functions.
So for example, to work with View X, we simply import and use use store to work with view router and
it's objects.
We import the use route and use router functions and invoke those in our setup method and get those
respective objects as well.
So the whole idea is that composable is are these helper functions that utilize views, react to features.
So in the case of what we talked about in the previous slide, you store is going to give us a reactive
object holding the view X Store state and we're able to use that to affect our component and get it
to recognize, change and react to that change.
But the core intent behind this design is that a component is going to be composed of lots of smaller
reusable functions that provide these reactive objects that multiple components can reuse.
So that's why it's called the Composition API, because a component builds up or composes itself based
on logical functionality or behavior that comes from these separate functions.
And of course, the goal here is to kind of make our actual components as dumb as possible.
And that's a good thing, because the more that our components worry about just displaying the view
and the more that the business logic takes place in separate JavaScript functions generally, the easier
it becomes to test.
Generally, the better our components become.
They tend to become smaller because we are able to extract pieces of business logic out instead of cramming,
you know, three separate features into one component.
We tend to extract those into three composable functions.
They live separately, they're tested independently.
So it tends to lead to better code.
That's why a lot of people are fans of the composition API.
It kind of enforces a lot of good practices with component design.
All right.
So we also saw that we can use view functions like graph computed, reactive, etc., and more in a
composable function body.
So in a plane JavaScript function, in a plane JS file in our code base, we can import those named
exports from the from the view library and simply use them outside of a component.
And that is absolutely wonderful because we can decouple ourselves from a specific component.
We can just write a function to talk to The View X Store.
We can write a function to get the root.
We can write a function to update when a getter gets updated.
We can isolate those names.
That logic to smaller helper functions that are reusable in many components.
Right.
As far as testing, we saw that we should just test composable like plain JavaScript functions.
So as always, we simply invoke it and we test the output.
So input, output, what do I get into it and what do I expect it to produce for me?
So all we need to do is test the return diet.
If our composable function returns a reactive object.
No problem.
You can access value on that object to get the data it is storing and validate that everything is correct.
Right.
You don't need to test the complexity of the reactivity because remember, that is the view team's responsibility.
They've created tests for RAF and competed in all that logic and their code base.
We worry about the business logic that is our own.
And similarly, when we're testing our components, our tests no longer need to mark out those properties
that, for example, Vue router or Vue X do.
So we no longer use the MOX property on the config object that we pass to the non function.
Rather we simply mock out the helper functions, the composable that the component utilizes.
So if a component is going to use use store, we simply import you store it in our test, we mock it
out.
So when that component mounts is going to use our mock on a replacement, our substitute instead of
the original one.
And then we simply have our mock out composable function return, whatever is needed to test the components
responsibility.
So we care about the components interaction with those functions and what they return.
We don't really care about the internals of what those functions do when we're testing a component.
If it's our own composable function, we obviously do care about what those functions do.
But we can cover that logic in our tests for that function.
We do not, in my opinion, need to test that in components because that's duplicative and also makes
the test harder and create more points of failure.
Focus on what the component is doing as far as its interactions and its rendering and its user value.
You don't have to worry about testing the composable function in every single component that utilises
it.
That's really wasteful.
All right.
So with that, we've covered a lot more about the composition API.
We have one more section on it coming up.
So I look forward to it and I will see you in the next lesson.